scRNA workflow (#969)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/transcriptomics/tutorials/scrna_preprocessing/tutorial.md

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on
topic_name: transcriptomics
tutorial_name: scrna
---

<style>
blockquote img {
  width: 50%;
  display: block;
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: auto;
}
.tutorial table { 
  width:unset;
  margin-left:auto;
  margin-right:auto;
}

.tutorial table thead th {
  border-bottom: 2px solid #777; 
  text-align: left;
}

.tutorial table td:first-child, .tutorial table th:first-child  {
  border-right: 2px solid #777; 
  font-weight: bold;
  text-align: left;
}

.tutorial table td:not(first-child), .tutorial table th:not(first-child) {
  text-align: center;
  border-right: 1px solid #ddd;
  border-left: 1px solid #ddd;
}

</style>

# Introduction
{:.no_toc}

> The advent of single-cell RNA sequencing has provided the means to explore samples at the individual cell level, enabling a greater understanding of the development and function of such samples by the characteristics of their constituent cells. These cells can be classified into different cell subpopulations or "clusters" by the variation of gene expression exhibited by individual cells that share a common profile -- i.e. cells in the same cluster exhibit similar profiles of differential expression in the same set of related genes.

Reviewer: Is a single cell really a single cell or just cells from one group or one tissue? If a single cell is defined by similar gene expression can they be "sorted" already before having the expression profile?

By identifying significant genes in each cluster, cell types can be inferred and similarity between clusters can be determined based on their proximity to one another. If the cells all come from the same sample tissue, the cell types will likely correspond to the different stages of cell differentiation expected of that tissue, wherein a lineage/heirarchy could potentially be derived.

>  ![Facets of Cellular Identity](../../images/scrna_nbt3711.png "The various facets of cellular identity")

Reviewer: This fig is not explained at all and is not self-explanable

> This tutorial is in part inspired by aspects of the [Hemberg workflow](https://hemberg-lab.github.io/scRNA.seq.course/) at the Sangar insititute, as well as the [CGATOxford](https://github.com/CGATOxford/UMI-tools) workflow. The barcoding follows the CelSeq2 protocol and uses the lane configuration as that utilized by the Freiburg MPI Grün lab.

Reviewer: Give the information about barcoding  where you explain barcoding - not here, because here nobody knows was barcoding/barcodes is/are

# Analysis Strategy

> Most scRNA sequencing techniques use pooled-sequencing approaches to generate a higher throughput of data by performing amplification and sequencing upon multiple cells in the same "pool". From a bioinformatics standpoint, this means that the output FASTQ data from the sequencer is batch-specific and contains all the sequences from multiple cells.

Reviewer: What are multiple cells? Just many of the same type and not a single or different cell types together?

What is a batch? What means batch-specific?

> In this tutorial, we will perform pre-processing upon single-cell RNA FASTQ batch data to generate an *N*-by-*M*  count matrix of *N* cells and *M* genes, with each element indicating the level of expression of that gene in a particular cell. This matrix can be used in further downstream analyses, which will be covered in another tutorial. 

Reviewer: "This matrix can be used in further downstream analyses, which will be covered in another tutorial." this sentence confuses: what will be covered in which tutorial and why? Do I need to do this tutorial after this one? Why is it not explained here?

> The first part of this tutorial will use example *FASTQ* Batch data, which we will pair into a Galaxy *Collection* and perform barcode extraction and annotation upon. Alignment and quality control will also be performed, and we will see how to construct a rudimentary count matrix. 

Reviewer: Give this outline as agenda or objectives or aims in keywords/bullet points.

The second part of this tutorial will deal with multiple batches, and a different set of example count matrices will be used in which to merge and perform quality control upon. This will produce a final count matrix valid for downstream analysis.

> ### Agenda
>
> In this tutorial, we will deal with:
>
> 1. TOC
> {:toc}
>
{: .agenda}

# Single Batch Processing

> ### Data upload and organization

Reviewer: You need to introduce the paper from where you have the data, even if they are not complete here. Which data is ist? From who, where, for what, what was the biological question, what was the aim, what are the data, you are using here?

> The size of scRNA FASTQ files are typically in the gigabyte range and are somewhat impractical for training purposes, so we will expediate the analysis by using a smaller subset of actual batch data. This data is available at [`Zenodo`](https://zenodo.org/record/1345635) where the example FASTQ paired batch files are hosted, as well as a barcodes file and GTF file for the *Mus Musculus* genome version mm10.

Reviewer: Dont explain what is in Zenodo, only at the points when it is mentioned to download then. You can not know and keep here what all these data sets are or mean.

> The batch files are the first of the set of multiple batches, and originate from the first sequencing plate. We will explain this more in detail later, but for now we should make note of this when renaming our files in step 6 of the hands-on below.

Reviewer: This is confusing. Only explain things which are really needed in a specific step

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Data upload and organization
>
> 1. Create a new history and name it something meaningful (*e.g.* scRNA-seq single batch tutorial)
> 1. Open the Data Upload Manager by selecting *Get Data* from the Tool Panel and clicking *Upload File*
> 1. Select *Paste/Fetch Data*

> > 1. Copy each link for the reads (`SRR5683689_1.fastq.gz`, `SRR5683689_1.fastq.gz`), annotation (`Mus_musculus.GRCm38.93.mm10.UCSC.ncbiRefSeq.gtf`), and barcode (`celseq_barcodes.192.tabular`) files, and paste each link into a separate text field

Reviewer: twice _1 --> _2 is missing

> >    - Set the datatype of the read (.fastq.gz) files to **fastq.gz**

Reviewer: give this information directly with the dataset which has to be downloaded, not afterwards

> >    - Set the datatype of the annotation (.gtf) file to **tabular** and assign the Genome as **mm10**

Reviewer: why not set to gtf?

> > 1. Click *Start*

Reviewer: You have to say here, they need to rename their files in Galaxy because Galaxy takes the links as names. 

Furthermore, the Zenodo links appear red. It is not working to upload them

 ![Workflow Upper](../../images/scrna_workflow_upper.png "Single batch processing")

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Data upload and organization
>
> 1. Create a new history and rename it (*e.g.* scRNA-seq single batch tutorial)
> 1. Import the following files from [`Zenodo`](https://zenodo.org/record/2554612) or from the data library (ask your instructor)
>    ```
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/SRR5683689_1.fastq.gz?download=1
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/SRR5683689_2.fastq.gz?download=1
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/Mus_musculus.GRCm38.93.mm10.UCSC.ncbiRefSeq.gtf?download=1
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/celseq_barcodes.192.tabular?download=1
>    ``` 
>    
>    Set the database annotation to 'mm10' into the Genome dropdown box and select it.
>    <img style='width:100%' src="../../images/scrna_select_data.png" />
>    
>    
>    
>    {% include snippets/import_via_link.md %}
>    
>
> 1. Set the datatype of the `celseq_barcodes.192.tabular` to `tsv`

> > 1. Build a *Dataset pair* for the two FASTQ files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> 1. Build a **Dataset pair** for the two FASTQ files
```

> >    - Click the *Operations on multiple datasets* check box at the top of the history panel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>    - Click the **Operations on multiple datasets** check box at the top of the history panel
```

>    - Check the two boxes next to the R1 and R2 scRNA FASTQ samples

> >    - Click *For all selected...* and choose *Build dataset pair*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>    - Click **For all selected...** and choose **Build dataset pair**
```

>    - Ensure that the forward read is the `_1` sample, and the reverse read is the `_2` sample.

> >      - Click 'Swap' otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>      - Click **Swap** otherwise.
```

Reviewer 2: The above suggestions are all examples where I think you should be more consistent with formatting:
- Text that appears in the tool interface (labels, select options, etc.) should be in **boldface**.
- Text that you are supposed to type into the tool interface literally should be enclosed in `backticks`.
  There are mutliple such issues throughout the document.

All the above unless @bebatut disagrees of course.

>    - Set the name of the pair
>    
>    > ### {% icon tip %} Tip: Naming conventions
>    > * Multiple batches can exist on the same plate, and multiple plates can be used in an analysis
>    > * This is further clarified [in detail](#understanding-plates-and-batches) later-
>    > * For now, a useful convention to follow is `<name>_<plate>_<batch>` in order to preserve the sample names, sequencing plate number and batch number.
>    >

> >    > Here we will write 'C57_P1_B1'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>    > Here we will write `C57_P1_B1`
```

>    >
>    {: .tip}
>    
>    - Click *Hide original elements?*
>    - Click *Create list*
>
{: .hands_on}

## Understanding Barcodes

[Back to previous](javascript:window.history.back())

Barcodes are small random oligonucleotides that are inserted into the captured sequence at a specific point, and provide two pieces of information about the sequence:
  

>  1. Which cell the sequence came from

Reviewer 2: This bullet point 1. is never really discussed below.

> 1. Import the four matrices (`P1_B1.tabular`, `P1_B2.tabular`, etc.) from [`Zenodo`](https://zenodo.org/record/2554612) or from the data library (ask your instructor)
>    - Set the datatype of the tabular files to **tabular**
>
>    ```
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/P1_B1.tabular?download=1
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/P1_B2.tabular?download=1
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/P2_B3.tabular?download=1
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/P2_B4.tabular?download=1
>    ```
>    
>    {% include snippets/import_via_link.md %}
>    {% include snippets/import_from_data_library.md %}
>    
> 1. Rename a matrix
>    - Click on {% icon galaxy-pencil %} of the *`P1_B1.tabular`* file
>    - Set the Name field such that it is affixed with "_P1_B1" (e.g. 'multibatch_P1_B1')
>    - Click *Save*
> 1. Repeat for all matrices
>    - **Pay attention to the Plate number which changes after Batch 4**
>
{: .hands_on}

## Merging Count Matrices

Before we begin, we must consider that our matrices are not equal -- e.g. Batch1 has at least 1 cell that maps to GeneA, whereas Batch2 has no mention of GeneA.

> This can be resolved by performing a "Full Join" (as described [here](http://www.sql-join.com/sql-join-types/)) where GeneA is inserted into Batch2 as a gene with 0 counts:

Reviewer 2: No. With so many other topics touched and explained SQL is just clearly over the top. Explain it by example and in simple (even simplified if necessary) words, but no one in the audience will want to read additional material at this point.

Author: The ASCII table below explains the full join nicely, but the link also gives some really nice visual examples which would explain other types of joins for the more enthusiastic users.

I will keep the link, but place it under the ASCII tables as a footnote

> - *"Number of Header lines in each item"*:`1`  
> - *"Keep original column header"*:`Yes`  
> - *"Fill character"*:`0`  
>
{: .hands_on}

The identifier column refers to the column where the gene names are listed. A 1:1 correspondence between matrices is checked, so that the merge does not concatenate the wrong rows between matrices. The *Fill character* provides a default value of 0 for cases where a Gene appears only in one of the matrices as per our example earlier.

Once the merge is complete, we can now peek at our full combined matrix by once again clicking on the file name to see a small summary. Here we can see that we now have ~30,000 genes and over 1500 cells.

**Or do we?**

It is true that we have applied the same cell barcodes to each batch -- but -- **not all batches neccesarily use the same barcodes** to select their cells. For example, Batch1 might only use cell barcodes 1-50 in the barcodes file, and Batch2 might only use cell barcodes 51-100 in the barcodes file.
 
We must thus question why different sets of the same superset of barcodes be used on different batches? To answer this, we must understand some of the technicalities of the library preparation.

> ## Understanding Plates and Batches

Reviewer 2: yeah, definitely good to split this out. I'll skip this part for now.

>         | 1 1 1 : 2 2 2 |    CGG CTT GGG ngg ntt ann : cgg ctt ggg NGG NTT ANN
>         | 1 1 1 : 2 2 2 |    GAA GCC GTT cnn gnn tnn : gaa gcc gtt CNN GNN TNN
> 
> > ### {% icon question %} Question
> >
> > 1. Why apply the full set of barcodes to each lane, when only half will actually label?
> > 2. What benefit does this serve, instead of seperating them over different plates as in the previous example?
> > 
> > > ### {% icon solution %} Solution
> > >
> > > 1. This setup is actually the same as example 4, but with the two plates merged. Here we can check for cross-contamination in each lane by measuring the real cell labels against the false barcodes. If in lane 1, we detect a significant number of reads with cell barcodes of `TAA` or `ANN`, we can assume that some cross-contamination has occurred since we should not be able to detect these barcodes in that lane. The converse is also true of lane 2.
> > > 2. We have the benefit of detecting cross-contamination with the same advantages as example 4, but with the cost advantage of sequencing two batches at the same time.
> > >
> > {: .solution}
> {: .question}
> 
{: .details}

> ## Controlling against Cross-Contamination

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Guarding against Cross-Contamination
```

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on
title: "Preprocessing of single-cell data"
zenodo_link: "https://zenodo.org/record/1345635"
questions:
  - "How do we separate reads from seperate cells?"
  - "How do we reduce PCR bias?"
  - "How do we verify a barcode format?"
  - "How do we check for cross-contamination?"
objectives:
  - "Demultiplex FASTQ data via UMI-tools"
  - "Understand and validate the extraction of UMIs and Cell-Barcodes"
  - "Obtain an overview of general alignment and quantification techniques"
  - "Generate a count matrix for downstream scRNA analysis"
time_estimation: "2h"
key_points:
  - "Verifying the distribution of barcodes via a FASTQC plot"
  - "Relocating barcodes into headers"
  - "Merging matrices from different batches together"
  - "Removing unwanted barcodes"
contributors:
  - mtekman
  - bebatut
  - erxleben
  
---

<!-- Questions for team

* Does it make sense to split out the Understanding Barcodes section into its own tutorial

> * Does it make sense to split out the Understanding Plates and Batches into its own tutorial

Author: Agreed, already I can see how entangled these topics are.

> ### Agenda
>
> In this tutorial, we will deal with:
>
> 1. TOC
> {:toc}
>
{: .agenda}

# Single Batch Processing

### Data upload and organization

In this tutorial we will be analysing scRNA-seq data of bone marrow cells taken from a single C57 mouse by *Herman et al.* ([2018](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.4662)) and producing a count matrix that we can use for later analysis.

The size of scRNA files (.fastq) are typically in the gigabyte range and are somewhat impractical for training purposes, so we will expediate the analysis by using a smaller subset of actual batch data. We will also be using *Mus Musculus* annotation data (.gtf) from the  [NCBI RefSeq](ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genomes/refseq/vertebrate_mammalian/Mus_musculus/) track, as well as a barcodes file (.tsv).

 ![Workflow Upper](../../images/scrna_workflow_upper.png "Single batch processing")

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Data upload and organization
>
> 1. Create a new history and rename it (*e.g.* scRNA-seq single batch tutorial)
> 1. Import the following files from [`Zenodo`](https://zenodo.org/record/2554612) or from the data library (ask your instructor)
>    ```

> >    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/SRR5683689_1.fastq.gz?download=1

Reviewer 2: Why do the files used here have to be different from the ones used in the barcode section?
Would simplify the logic substantially if there was only one input dataset.

>    ```
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/test_barcodes_celseq2_R1.fastq.gz?download=1
>    https://zenodo.org/record/2554612/files/test_barcodes_celseq2_R2.fastq.gz?download=1
>    ```
>    
>    {% include snippets/import_via_link.md %}
>    
>    
>    1. Build a *Dataset pair* for the two FASTQ files
>       - Click the *Operations on multiple datasets* check box at the top of the history panel
>       - Check the two boxes next to the R1 and R2 scRNA FASTQ samples
>       - Click *For all selected...* and choose *Build dataset pair*
>       - Ensure that the forward read is the `R1` sample, and the reverse read is the `R2` sample.
>          - Click 'Swap' otherwise.
>       - Set the name of the pair
>
>    1. Generate a list of reads to filter by creating a plain tabular file containing the following read names:
>        ```
>        J00182:75:HTKJNBBXX:2:1114:12469:11073
>        J00182:75:HTKJNBBXX:2:2222:13301:35690
>        J00182:75:HTKJNBBXX:2:1203:25022:13763
>        J00182:75:HTKJNBBXX:2:1115:8501:46961
>        ```
>    1. Set the datatype of the file as **tabular**
>    1. Click the *View all histories* icon

> >    1. Drag the FASTQ collection from your previous history into your new history

Reviewer 2: which previous history? Is this not about the celseq2 files that got just imported above? I'm confused.

>         
> 
> Reverse:
> 
>         @J00182:75:HTKJNBBXX:2:1115:8501:46961 2:N:0:ATCACG
>         GACCTCTGATCTTTACGAAAGGCCAACGCGTTTTCAGTCTGGACACGGTTCAGCTCCTGTTCATTATTCA
>         +
>         A<<A-777F<AA<AJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ
>         
>         @J00182:75:HTKJNBBXX:2:1203:25022:13763 2:N:0:ATCACG
>         GCCACCTAATTTCCGTCATCACACTCCTCTCCGTTTTCAACTTGCACAATGCTGTCTCCGCAGAATCCCT
>         +
>         ---<----<A---77-7A-FJ<JJFFJJ<JJAJ7<-FAFFJJFF<FFJJFFAJFA-AFFFJFFFFFJAJJ
>         
>         @J00182:75:HTKJNBBXX:2:2222:13301:35690 2:N:0:ATCACG
>         CAATCCTCTCCGTTATCAACTTGCACAATGCTGTCTCCGCAGAATCCCTCCGGATCAGGATCGCTCTCCA
>         +
>         <<A-77--77F<----7AFJ-A--FJJJFAJF-AFAJAJ<JFJ<JJJFFJJJFJJJJJAAFJJJFJJJF-
>         
>         @J00182:75:HTKJNBBXX:2:1114:12469:11073 2:N:0:ATCACG
>         ATCCACTTATTGCAAAGCAGAGGACATTGAGTCTCACCTTTTGTCCAGGTCTTCCAATTTCACCCTGCAA
>         +
>         A-77AA-7FF<7FFJFFFJJJJJJJJJJJJJ-AFJJJJJJJFJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ
>         
{: .details}

What we observe are the standard four lines of any FASTQ file:
  1. Read name starting with `@`
  2. Sequence of nucleotide bases
  3. Seperator `+`

>   4. Quality string of the nucleotide bases in Hex

Reviewer 2: this is wrong: if anything then it's ASCII, but the question is whether that's worth mentioning here. Maybe just quality string is good enough?

Author: changed it to ASCII, leaving it as quality string is just too vague I think

> >   - 6 million mapped reads should be enough to generate a downstream analysis from.
> >
> {: .solution}
{: .question}

## Filtering

Before continuing let us first look back on some of the previous stages:

> ### {% icon comment %} Recap of previous stages
>
> 1. *Barcode Extraction*:  
>   Here we used `umi_tools extract` on our input forward and reverse FASTQ files, and extracted the umi and cell barcode from the forward read *sequence*, and placed it into the *header* of both forward and reverse FASTQ files. i.e. FASTQ files → Modified FASTQ files  
> 2. *Mapping*:  
>   We took the sequencing data from the reverse FASTQ file (with modified headers) and aligned it to the mouse genome, using annotations presented in the GTF file for that genome. i.e. Modified FASTQ file (reverse) → BAM file
>
{: .comment}

#### Confirming Reads in the BAM file

We now have a BAM file of our aligned reads, with cell and UMI barcodes embedded in the read headers. We also have the chromosome and base-pair positions of where these reads are aligned. The can be confirmed by peeking into the BAM file:

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Confirming the Alignment Data
>

> >  1. Click on the eye symbol of the BAM output from STAR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>  1. Click on the {% icon galaxy-eye %} symbol of the BAM output from STAR.
```

 * `NH`: The number of hits for  this read. If it is multiply mapped, then the number of multiples will be shown (here `2`).
 * `HI`: Which number this particular read is in the series of (potentially) multi-mapped reads (here `1`, not neccesarily meaning the first or 'better').
 * `nM`: The number of mismatches in the alignment of this read to the reference (here `2`).

#### Filtering the BAM File

If we perform counting on the current BAM file we will be counting all reads, even the undesireable ones such as those that did not align so optimally.

The main filtering steps performed on our reads so far have been relatively silent due to the 'default' parameters used.
 * *UMI-tools Extract* - Filters reads for those only with matching barcodes given by our barcodes file.
 * *RNA-STAR* - As seen in the log, we lose 10% of our reads for being too short or being multiply mapped.

Another filtering measure we can apply is to keep reads that we are confident about, e.g those with a minimum number of mismatches to the reference within an acceptable range. 

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Task description
>

> > 1. **Filter** {% icon tool %} with the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: You need to provide the full tool name here, or it will remain unclear, which you are refering to, so:

```suggestion
> 1. **Filter BAM datasets on a variety of attributes** {% icon tool %} with the following parameters:
```

{: .comment}

### Annotating Gene name with FeatureCounts

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Quantification assist via FeatureCounts
> 
> Let us annotate our BAM file with desired gene tags.
> 
> 1. **FeatureCounts** {%icon tool %} with the following parameters:
>  - {% icon param-file %} *"Alignment file"*: `mapped_reads` (output of **RNA STAR** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Gene annotation file"*: `in your history`
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Gene annotation file"*: `output` (Input dataset) (The GTF file we imported earlier))
>    - *"Specify strand information"*:`Unstranded`
>    - In *"Advanced options"*:
>        - *"Count multi-mapping reads/fragments"*: `Disabled; multi-mapping reads are excluded (default)`
>        - *"Exon-exon junctions"*: `Yes`
>        - *"Annotates the alignment file with 'XS:Z:'-tags to described per read or read-pair the corresponding assigned feature(s)."*: `Yes`
>
> 2. Examine the output BAM file
>  - Click on the {% icon galaxy-eye %} for the "Feature Counts: Alignment File"
>  - Scroll down past the header lines
>  - Scroll horizontally to the tags, observe the new `XT` tag.
{: .hands_on}

> The `XS` and `XT` tags in the BAM file will now form the basis for which we will tally reads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `XS` and `XT` tags in the BAM file will now form the basis for tallying reads.
```

With all the relevant data now in our BAM file, we can actually perform the counting via `UMI-tools count`.

> ### {% icon tip %} Tip: Verifying added gene name
> You can once again check this yourself by examining the {% icon galaxy-eye %} of the STAR Alignment file
{: .comment}

### Counting Genes / Cell

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Final Quantification
> 
> **UMI-tools counts** {%icon tool %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Sorted BAM file"*: `out_file1` (output of **Filter** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Umi Extract Method"*: `Barcodes are contained at the end of the read seperated by a delimiter`
>    - *"Method to identify group of reads"*: `Unique`
>    - *"Prepend a label to all column headers"*: `Dataset Name`
>    - *"Bam is paired-end"*:`No`
>    - *"Method to identify group of reads"*:`Unique`
>    - *"Extra Parameters"*:
>       - *"Deduplicate per gene."*:`XT`
>       - *"Group reads only if they have the same cell barcode."*:`Yes`
>  - *"Prepend a label to all column headers"*:`No modifications`
>
{: .hands_on}

> The important parameters to take note of were those given in the *Extra Parameters* where we have specified that each of the reads with a `XT:Z` tag in the BAM file will be counted on a per cell basis. Reads sharing the same UMI and cell Barcodes will be de-duplicated into a single count, reducing PCR duplicate bias from the analysis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The important parameters to take note of are those given in the *Extra Parameters* where we specify that each of the reads with a `XT:Z` tag in the BAM file will be counted on a per cell basis. Reads sharing the same UMI and cell Barcodes will be de-duplicated into a single count, reducing PCR duplicate bias from the analysis.
```
